The Joe Rogan experience. If you go to the Congo,
you got to go walk through the stretch that has that giant champ living in it.
Do you know that giant Chimp, the Bondo ape,
the bundle? Yeah. It's a larger version of the chimpanzee.
It's like six feet tall, huge 200 plus pound chimps. Jeez.
The locals call them line killers. It really? Yeah. They,
they nest on the ground or we got an image of they nest on the ground,
like gorillas. Yeah. Well this one is not,
this is an image is a dead ones. See if you can go to,
uh there's um, th if you just Google Bondo, ape,
there's some really good. See that one in the upper left hand corner, Jamie.
Yeah, but that picture, I don't think is real. I want to say that's fake.
Congo's giant Bondo. See that, that one's real. Those people with the dead one.
Okay, good. Make that larger, please. Can you just make the,
there you go. That is a, that's the first evidence of one that they ever found.
And then, um, they, they shot this thing and they took pictures of it,
but I believe that was in the 1930s.
And then they got another one that they shot at an airport.
And these guys are posing with this thing. See if you could find them,
that's it at the bottom. The very bottom that right there. Bang. Look at that,
go, go full screen. The one below it. Yeah. Look at that.
Make that larger look at the size of that Chimp.
So that is this thing that they call the Bondo eight and it has a crest on its
skull, like a gorilla. Yeah. Yeah. It's not like it's not,
skull is not shaped like a chimpanzee skull. And so go back to the picture,
please. That's okay. That's big enough,
but because there's not a very clear picture anyway.
So these guys shot this at an airport and a look at the hog on them too.
But the size of that thing, I mean, look at the, the men behind it.
I don't know how big they are,
but let's assume they're tiny and they're five foot five.
That thing is 5 10, 5 11, probably. Well,
north of 200 pounds. And it's a Chimp. Oh my God. A rip you to pieces easy.
But the cool thing is, is this is a weird sub species. That's only in this,
I think it's called Bailey in the Congo and they call it.
They either call it the bili ape, or they call it the Bondo ape.
But it's an enormous.
Sure. I've stuck picture there where the guys are either side holding it up.
I'm sure.
Google, uh, Bondo, Abe camera, trap photo.
There's a camera trap photo of one of them walking upright.
And it's about six feet tall. Upper left-hand corner. That one. Yeah.
They said by measuring the stuff around it,
they think that that is a six foot tall chimpanzee walking through the
jungle. And that's this guy, there's a guy named Carl Oman. He's a,
I think he's from Switzerland. He's a wildlife photographer.
And he spent a considerable amount of time trying to find these things and take
photos of them because of all the descriptions that the, the natives have,
these enormous chimpanzees, they got video of one of them eating a Jaguar.
They don't know if it killed it or if it found it dead, but.
Whereabouts in the Congo is at, you know?
Yeah. I think it's called BI L I, it's not a large place,
but it's incredibly dense jungle. It's very hard to get to.
But for a long time it was just legend. But now they have actual video of them.
They have photograph, they have scat samples, DNA,
and then they have the skulls,
the skulls that are not quite gorilla and not quite chimpanzee when they first
got I'm pretty sure they thought it was a hybrid.
They thought like a gorilla a champion. Come here, bro. And then, um,
now they think it's a totally different subspecies of chimpanzee.
So they're really ULI forest. So that's where you got to go, bro.
Yeah. That's not far from the of that looks like the source there. Yeah.
Is that.
Could you go through there? So that area looks small,
but it's probably bigger than Florida. The area where these things,
I mean the condos.
Oh, is it the Congo? She's always fast from a young age,
you hear all sorts of stories about the Congo don't yet.
Isn't it wider than the contiguous United States?
I think the Congo itself is wider than the United States.
I think there's more landmass in the, in the Congo.
There's an amazing BBC documentary on the Congo from many
years ago from, I think it was like from the nineties, but, uh, they spent, uh,
29 times. The I'd say is 29 times bigger than the Congo. Okay. Well hold on,
stop, stop. Uh,
200 and 342,000 square kilometers. But the width of it,
I think it's the width.
Well, I only 5 million people, even a size.
Oh, that's it. Okay. No, it's not. Okay. It's not as wide. It's him.
It's close to Texas or something. Yeah. It's like,
it's bigger than Texas for sure.
It's like Texas and California and maybe like one other states most down there,
it looks like it's like 30% of the United States.
Still in love wilderness that there was no. Yeah.
Man. And if there's a giant Chimp limit in there and all kinds of other in all.
Sorts, all.
Sorts. Have you seen that? A shoe bill bird that lives there? No. Oh my God.
It's a five foot tall dinosaur of a bird with an enormous face.
His face is like this big and it looks like, like, it doesn't look real.
Like you see.
But the way that you're describing it, maybe photos, videos.
Face that they have there.
There's some great high resolution photos of the shoe bill.
When you look at them in the eye and you're like, what the is that?
Is that real? They're little like the most ferocious looking bird.
It looked like that right there. Yeah. Come on bro. Face.
Imagine walking through.
Waking up and see, and not looking down at you.
Or walking through the jungle and you part some leaves and that thing is staring
at your face. Oh my God.
We came across, you know, L have you heard of elephant boots?
I think David Attenborough, elephant birds, elephant birds.
I think David Attenborough first discovered it or went to Madagascar because he
was fascinated by the elephant bird went extinct. I don't know how long ago,
but their eggs were about there. About what's half a foot like a football.
Yeah. Almost. Okay. Yeah. Rugby ball football. Um, in, in size.
There we go.
Oh my God.
That'd be painful.
That's so big. Look at the size of that.
Tyson with an ostrich. Oh my God. Um, on the left, there you go. Yeah. Holy.
And these were big, but I came across the elephant boot eggshells.
They're about this thick as well,
maybe quarter half a centimeter in thick in thickness.
And they're just scattered across the Southern beaches of Madagascar in their
thousands.
So this thing is still alive.
Extinct. It's just the eggs are still there. Yeah. There you go.
As David [inaudible]. I think he bought one box and called it
, which is the capital city of.
Any of them. You can just go get one.
This thought. Yeah. Just crushed because they're so thick. Oh,
I look at that compared.
It just lasts forever. Oh, holy. They're huge. Okay.
How many years ago they went? Extinct shows a couple.
Of thousand. How many of these things have been kept or, uh, collected?
I'm not too sure. Don't know how many.
Why did they disappear? What does it say? Human people? What?
I believe it was the humans. Isn't it? Hunter?
Roll-down humans may not be to blame all.
Pop-ups get us every time. Wow.
Immense fast. Huge though. Isn't it?
Yeah. But did you ever see the ones they had in north America? The Terra birds?
No. Oh. They had seven feet tall murderous,
carnivorous birds that couldn't fly running around north America. Geez.
Yeah. Pull up terror. Birds.
Jamie's he's searched over time. In this episode.
I'm just trying to scare you with all the I've seen in your whole life.
These were enormous birds.
There's one that shows a real look at the size of that thing.
There's one that shows the go to back to that national geographic thing that you
just had right there. Jamie in the middle. Yeah. I think that was like a,
a CGI documentary that they had done on one says verse wolves.
I don't even want to click. Oh.
Yeah.
Well, I think there's so much bigger than the wolves.
They probably hunted them down. There's a size.
Comparison there. Isn't I say next to a human. Yes.
There is. It's a far left, just chasing horses.
Do you imagine like exploration back there will be a whole different ball game
when it, oh.
You had no idea. So.
I have a dangerous as well, you know?
Well,
when you're talking about people that believe in witches and people that believe
in witchcraft, like back then,
you almost had to have some belief system to keep you going because you had no
idea what was around the next corner. So these Terra birds were alive.
I believe when human beings were alive. Right? When did these things,
when were these things alive? If I had to guess,
I'm going to guess they died out million years ago,
half a million years ago.
62 To 1.8 million years ago. Whoa.
62 Million.
This is a temporal range covers from 62 to 1.8 million years ago.
So I think that's 62 million, not 62 years ago.
So definitely the dinosaur dinosaur age centers.
Outlook era.
So just some kind of monkey Chimp type thing was all we had back then.
You know, I think that was like Australia, pivot guests or something like that.
What was it? What year was that? Okay. You got I'm over Googling. You.
Still stuff living, living with is the one that's less terrifying.
We had the camel spider. Yes. Her injects. You have like an anesthetic. Yeah.
Like stories of soldiers waking up half an ear missing because they've been
injected in the middle of the night by this big camel,
spider size of a dinner plate. Isn't it? What does this Jim.
Mammals of the myosis scene, which are, I guess the same as the same era.
So it looks like giant sloths time period. That,
that north American bear time period.
Look how small the horses are. Holy.
Compared to those giant slot things avatar isn't it's a short face bear.
That's what that is. That's that enormous bear. You've seen that thing. Right?
The, uh, short face bear.
Short faced bear. I haven't.
Seen no, bro.
The short face bear was the most terrifying bear in all of history.
Short face bear was way bigger than a polar bear and super carnivorous.
And they think it might've been the thing that kept human beings from
successfully navigating the Trek through the bearing landmass until they went
extinct. They're huge. There's,
there's a picture of a guy standing next to a recreation of a short face bear
and it's cry. It's so big.
They think people probably hunted them off to extinction or they don't,
they don't really really know. Do you get an image of a short face bear? Yeah.
It's ridiculous animal that I didn't even know existed until a few years ago.
Probably so much. That's why that's sappy.
And I dunno if it goes into the details, Sapient does go into the details of it.
Go with the one on the far right corner, upper. Right.
That's what it looks like.
You just would not venture outside.
Imagine how big that is.
Root. Isn't it it's.
Like a cartoon comic book version of a bear.
Like you can't believe we're looking at this thing.
We're literally this thing standing up these gentlemen,
let's just assume there's somewhere in the neighborhood of six feet tall.
This thing is their entire height plus a couple of feet.
So double their entire height. I should say,
plus a couple of feet as we gate there, their head,
this thing standing up and their,
their heads are like right around where his hip bone is.
Although he is on a little bit of that.
That's pretty close to 14, 15 feet maybe standing up.
Yeah. But why they have a motto mound? Listen. We know he's tall,
but put them on it. You're exaggerating. You're making it look more ridiculous.
It's ridiculous. As it is without putting him being on a mound,
why do you have him? You trying to make it even crazier. It's crazy enough,
but super predatory. Yeah.
Between that and saber tooth tigers,
there was an African line that used to live here.